In last lecture we created a comments.php file and now we need to start coding this template.
So the first thing we need to do, we need to check if the current post is password protected.
If the current post is password protected,
we don't need to show these comments template, right?
So we have a function called post_password_protected or password_required().
And if so we will return and the form won't be displayed.
So let's make sure this is working. So let' echo this. So the post_password_required() function will return "true" if
the password is required.
But it will return "false" if the password is required and you typed the right password. And that's exactly
what we need.
So let's go to the password required post.
As you can see we don't have the template here which should be this string. Let's type the password.
And now we have it, right?
So next we need to create a DIV with an ID of "comments". Let's close PHP first.
And then I'm gonna give it a class
"c-comments" and this class is for styling.
But the ID is important and I'll tell you why now.
So the reason why the ID "comments" is important.
Let's go to the template-parts and then post and then content.
Let's do something here.
Let's called a function called get_comments_link(). And this will get something called comments link for this
post.
And remember we're in the content.php
so we are in the loop here.
And then we need to echo this.
So as you can see this function will return a URL for this post but with an ID at the end.
So here have ID "respond". But if you have a post with comments we will have ID "comments".
So if you go to this link now,
what will happen is adding this ID "comments" here will scroll to a DIV with ID "comments".
So if you're familiar with HTML you already know that if you had an ID in the URL it will scroll to this
DIV with this ID. And that's the reason why we added the DIV with ID "comments" here. And see if you don't have comments
for a post we'll have respond and you'll see why also later.
So let's carry on this, remove now the get_comments_link().
And what we'll have to do now is we have to display a title with a number of comments. But before displaying
the title
let's add an if condition that will check if we have comments.
So "if (hane_comments())" and then close it. And inside of it I'm gonna add an H2 tag with a class
"c-comments__title". And then inside this H2 tag we will, we need to print if we
have a single comment, we will print "1reply to"
and then the post title.
If you have more than 1 comments we will print
for example "2 replies to"
and then the post title.
So I think you should know how to do this by now.
We'll use printf and _n(). So let's open PHP. And let's
first add _n(). So the _n() need to be escaped as well.
So esc_html( _n() ) .
So the "single" will be a placeholder for the number of comments. We'll have 2 placeholders here so
we will have to use not only "%s", we'll have to use numbers.
So "%1$s". So you can use these numbers if you want to add multiple placeholders.
You can read more about the printf() function if you need to know more. And then "Reply to " and then the
second placeholder.
So let's add the title of the post
inside the " ". And then the second placeholder. So next to we'll have the "plural". So let's add this
in new line.
And the plural will be "Replies" that will be the only difference.
And then the number and this will be the number of comments. So let's get_comments_number() and finally the text
domain.
So what do we need to do now? We need to put the output of this in a printf() to replace the placeholders.
So printf and then the first argument will be the output of the _n() function and the second argument
will be the number of posts but formatted remember.
So let's call number_format_i18n(), internationalization, and then get_comments_number(). And this will
be the first placeholder,
the "%1$s". The second one will be the title of the post. So get_the_title(). And let's also write a comment
for the translators.
So "1 is number of comments and 2 is post title".
Let's save this and see.
And we have "19 Replies to " and then the post title.
So next we need to display the comments, the actual comments. And to do that
we use a function called wp_list_comments() and will also call this function inside "if ( have_comments() ) "
condition.
So let's open PHP and let's call wp_list comments(). And it can take an array of arguments.
We'll see that in a moment.
So let's save and see what will this look like.
So as you can see it outputted the comments.
And if you inspect
each comment will be in an LI.
But we don't have a UL. So it's your responsibility to add UL before calling wp_list_comments() function.
So let's do that. And I've a class called "c-comments__list".
So we now have the comments wrapped in a UL. So let's see the arguments that we can put here.
So here we have an avatar.
Maybe it's a bit small so we have an argument called "avatar_size".
So let's say "200". We also have an argument called "reply_text" and let's say "hello" for example. And let's see now. As you can see we've a large
avatar
and the reply text is now "hello".
So the next step is in the wp-admin in the Discussion Settings you can choose to paginate your comments. So we can break
comments into pages and let's say 5 per page. And you can also choose the order and stuff like that. But let's save
now. And let's reload.
So we now have 5 comments but you don't have any pagination, right? So to display the pagination we will have to
call a function called the_comments_pagination().
And now we have the pages here.
Right?
So finally and obviously we need to display the comments form itself.
And this is also we need just to call a function.
And this function is called
comments_form().
But make sure you add this function call after the have_comments() if condition. We always need to display this
form.
It's actually called "comment_form()" not "comments"
And now we have the form.
Right? Let's go to the comment_form() documentation.
I just want to let you know that this function can take a lot of arguments. And using these arguments
you can customize every bit of HTML in this form.
So you have an example here you can customize even the IDs in the classes for the form and for the submit
button. And the titles and stuff like that.
You can actually also customize the comment field, the HTML for the comment field. You can add your
own textarea.
Actually every HTML that is outputted in this form you can customize it using the arguments in the
comment_form() function.
But I think you can do that yourself if you will have to do it.
But in our case the comments form is fine this way.
Let's just make sure the reply link is working,
which is hello. And it's now working fine.
What we need to do now finally in this comments.php. We need to check. Let's open PHP and we need to check
if the comments are disabled. So "!"
and then comments_open().
If the comments are disabled,
but we have some comments, so get_comments_number().
You would like to maybe display a message that you can't add comments to this post anymore,
right?
So maybe P tag and  I have a class called
"c-comments__closed".
And then we need to echo a string escaped and translated.
And let's say "Comments are closed for this post".
So our comments template is now done.
We have everything now for a fully functional comments template.
But one more thing that maybe you would like to do is to customize the markup for each comment. So WordPress
will generate some markup here for a comment.
As you can see. But maybe you don't like that and you want to create your own markup for the comment.
So let's see how we can do that in the next lecture or actually before we go to the next lecture.
Remember the get_comments_link() function that we outputted here. And it added an ID of "comments"
if you have comments and an ID of "respond" if we don't have comments, right? So the comments form we have
an ID of "respond".
And that's why the get_comments_link() added this ID in order to scroll through the comments form if
we don't have any comments.
All right?
So I just wanted to mention that, see you in the next lecture.